# About Me
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Before we start let me just list the things I'm confident and good at: drawing, painting, table-tennis, cooking, video-editing and well let me stop while I'm ahead! Eventually I picked up a few more things along the way as you read through the paragraphs.
<br><br>
I recieved my B.Tech Undergrad degree in Mechanical Engineering from SRM Institue of Science and Technology, Chennai, India. If you had asked me back then: What was the reason/motivation to do a 4 year degree in Mechanical Engineering ?, then I would have said that I wanted to build an Iron Man Suit. Yes, you heard it right. Tony Stark's Mark 42 Autonomous Prehensile Propulsion Suit. Funny right? But, I was devoted to the cause, and dreamt of building something even close to it if not the same. As all dreams get a reality check, I found out the hard way that it was not that easy to build something to that size given the power and force/strength requirements. But the dream to build something unique and marvellous stayed on. Fast forward and I finished my undergrad with focus on Operations Research and Data Analysis. 
<br><br>
I was introduced to the world of Data Science through IBM's Data Science 101 online course. With this course I was interested to know more about Data Science and Machine Learning, which led to my enrollement in 6+ months of a Data Scientist Online Certification Course by UpX and Tech Mahindra. This 8 month long course introduced me to the basics of Data Science such as Exploratory Data Analysis, Data visualization using Tableau to Machine Learning concepts from introduction to advanced alogrithms and techniques. The course was taught by many industry practioners in different domains from Finance to Retail. This experience was instrumental for my decision to explore more of this field and led to my application for Masters study in the USA. My application for UC Berkeley was accepted and I started my Master of Engineering in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research (Data Analytics and Machine Learning Track). 
<br><br>
Part of my MEng degree involved a year long Capstone project. I and three other MEng students were part of project on Image Recognition for Autonomous Driving. We were tasked with building an image recognition algorithm from scratch to detect pedestrians and vehicles. This project was intended to introduce the team to the advanced and revolutionizing world of Deep Learning through a hands-on project. I was the Team Lead for the project. With my previous experience on Machine Learing and Data Science basics, I guided my team with the necessary research papers and course materials to begin our quest for buiding the algorithm. Along this journey I learnt a lot about Image classification networks like VGG, AlexNet, GoogleNet, ResNet, DenseNet etc. and Object detection frameworks such as YOLOv1, v2, v3, SSD, R-CNN, F-R-CNN etc. I proposed the use of different classifiers as feature extractors and use the detection principle from YOLO model to form two object detectors. With this goal, our team built and trained the object detectors from scratch. 
<br><br>
Mid way through i.e. in Spring semester, I got accepted for a Collaborative Research project offered by Volvo Cars. This Research Project was truly collaborative in the sense that there were two student teams: one 6-member team from UC Berkeley and another 6-member team from Chalmers University, Sweden. Both supervised by respective Volvo Cars R&D Advisors. This was truly a unique experience. The research project was concerned with devising an accurate framework for predicting a Pedestrian's intention to cross and that too 0.5 secs before the intended action occurred. Armed with my capstone project experience, I helped some of my new team members with object detection basics, tensorflow programming and CNNs. Along the course of the project I got extremely involved with different components of the project such as Object detector transfer learning/training, preparation of dataset for training different components of the framework, object detector GAN augmentation experiment, coding for end to end framework. Initially the two teams followed different work streams with the same end goal and after some progress we decided to integrate some features from different work streams. I took lead and conducted multiple meetings with diffetent groups of the teams and we arrived at fusion based methods as means to integrate both team's work. In the final sprint of the project, I successfully integrated the fusion based methods with our best intention prediction framework and wrote codes for the same. There were promising results and findings along with many experiments that we conducted simultaneously. Ultimately, based on the findings I co-authored a research paper for the 2020 Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems and Computers. During this 3.5 months of effort I learnt a great deal of technical knowledge by application and gained some management skills.
<br><br>
This arc of experience in my MEng has been very interesting for me. My interest in applying such Deep Learning and Machine Learning methods to solve such advanced problems has increased a lot. With this experience, I look forward to start my career in such interesting roles where I can be part of something big and my efforts would impact the field.
</p>
